README.md, before:

# -= pyto_seg_slurm =-
Submission scripts for image pre-processing, [pyto_segmenter](https://github.com/deniclab/pyto_segmenter/) segmentation, and post-segmentation analysis on Harvard's Odyssey cluster

Author: Nicholas Weir, nweir[at]fas[dot]harvard[dot]edu

__Note:__ These scripts are currently designed for running on my personal RC account, and will require some fiddling with paths and other preparation to make it work for you. Ask me if you need help.

## Contents:
Three sets of scripts contained in separate sub-directories:

__preprocessing:__ For pre-segmentation processing of images acquired on the Murray/Garner lab spinning disk confocal.
- image_preprocessing.sh, img_file_cleanup.py, and batch_merge_channels.py: for automatically renaming image filenames based on stage position numbering and a stage_positions.STG reference table, then generating ImageJ/Fiji-format multi-channel images and maximum intensity projections.
- norm_camera.sh and .py: For normalizing camera background both within and across images according to a camera background channel acquired at each stage position/timepoint combination.

__segmentation:__ For performing segmentation on fluorescence microscopy images using pyto_segmenter. See the scripts for command-line arguments (more details will be explained in this readme soon)
- batch_pex_seg.sh, batch_pex_seg_cfp.sh, and batch_pex_seg.py: for segmenting foci visualized in either the red (batch_pex_seg.sh) or cyan (batch_pex_seg_cfp.sh) channels.
- batch_mito_seg.sh and .py: For segmenting reticular structures visualized in the cyan channel. _important note_: this script is optimized specifically for segmenting mitochondria using endogenously expressed Tom70-mTurquoise2 imaged at 35% laser power with a 100 ms exposure and 100 units EM gain. For other purposes, it will need to be modified.
- mito_and_pex_seg.sh and .py, mito_and_pex_seg_nooverlap.sh and .py: For segmenting both foci (red) and reticular structures (cyan). Same note as above for batch_mito_seg. nooverlap removes parts of reticular structures that overlap with foci (but not vice versa).

__analysis__: For post-segmentation analysis of segmented structures.
- parallel_analysis.sh and .py: for measuring fluorescence intensities in the yellow channel for objects segmented in either cyan or red above. outputs a .csv-formatted table of objects with intensity and volume for each object along with origin metadata.
- combine_outputs.sh and .py: for combining multiple .csv-formatted outputs generated using parallel_analysis.sh and .py.

Last updated: 10.10.2017

Commit message:

adding PYTO_SEG_ENV setup instructions

README.md, after:

# -= pyto_seg_slurm =-
Submission scripts for image pre-processing, [pyto_segmenter](https://github.com/deniclab/pyto_segmenter/) segmentation, and post-segmentation analysis on Harvard's Odyssey cluster

Author: Nicholas Weir, nweir[at]fas[dot]harvard[dot]edu

__Note:__ These scripts are currently designed for running on my personal RC account, and will require some fiddling with paths and other preparation to make it work for you. Ask me if you need help.

## Contents:
Three sets of scripts contained in separate sub-directories:

__preprocessing:__ For pre-segmentation processing of images acquired on the Murray/Garner lab spinning disk confocal.
- image_preprocessing.sh, img_file_cleanup.py, and batch_merge_channels.py: for automatically renaming image filenames based on stage position numbering and a stage_positions.STG reference table, then generating ImageJ/Fiji-format multi-channel images and maximum intensity projections.
- norm_camera.sh and .py: For normalizing camera background both within and across images according to a camera background channel acquired at each stage position/timepoint combination.

__segmentation:__ For performing segmentation on fluorescence microscopy images using pyto_segmenter. See the scripts for command-line arguments (more details will be explained in this readme soon)
- batch_pex_seg.sh, batch_pex_seg_cfp.sh, and batch_pex_seg.py: for segmenting foci visualized in either the red (batch_pex_seg.sh) or cyan (batch_pex_seg_cfp.sh) channels.
- batch_mito_seg.sh and .py: For segmenting reticular structures visualized in the cyan channel. _important note_: this script is optimized specifically for segmenting mitochondria using endogenously expressed Tom70-mTurquoise2 imaged at 35% laser power with a 100 ms exposure and 100 units EM gain. For other purposes, it will need to be modified.
- mito_and_pex_seg.sh and .py, mito_and_pex_seg_nooverlap.sh and .py: For segmenting both foci (red) and reticular structures (cyan). Same note as above for batch_mito_seg. nooverlap removes parts of reticular structures that overlap with foci (but not vice versa).

__analysis__: For post-segmentation analysis of segmented structures.
- parallel_analysis.sh and .py: for measuring fluorescence intensities in the yellow channel for objects segmented in either cyan or red above. outputs a .csv-formatted table of objects with intensity and volume for each object along with origin metadata.
- combine_outputs.sh and .py: for combining multiple .csv-formatted outputs generated using parallel_analysis.sh and .py.

## Running analysis on the Odyssey cluster

Before you can run analysis on the cluster, you'll need to set up an environment using Python 3 (all of our segmentation and analysis scripts are implemented in Python 3). You can find general instructions for getting this up and running [here](https://www.rc.fas.harvard.edu/resources/documentation/software-on-odyssey/python/). Specifically, you'll need to do the following:

- `cd ~`  
to navigate to your home folder
- `module load Anaconda3/2.1.0-fasrc01`  
to switch to Python 3 (with most packages - numpy, scipy, scikit-image, matplotlib, pandas, etc. - already implemented)
- `pip3 install numpy`  
to update to the newest version of numpy (the one installed here is a couple of updates behind, and I had to use functions from a newer version of python)
- `conda create -n PYTO_SEG_ENV --clone="$PYTHON_HOME"`  
This will save the new "python environment" that you've just made as PYTO_SEG_ENV. From now on, to switch to python 3 on the cluster you'll just need to run `source activate PYTO_SEG_ENV`. However, _you never need to do this at the login node:_ it just needs to be in your .sh submission script (see all of the submission scripts in this repo)


Last updated: 10.10.2017
